Notes: https://github.com/kdillmcfarland/2021-04-02-r-ladies-seattle-online/blob/gh-pages/_episodes/R-ladies/2021-04-02_git.md

Pre-survey: http://meet.meetup.com/ls/click?upn=yBf4llw5PeaY7leriFwBBhIiScz7MAK-2FM37yYZYQLbhdBe9o2Tk6fdMkCkVlv2ZlC55hr-2Fsu4CCgpADhOoKtp6mp1WQJs8MvsEkfxLIkz2sXX3WQ-2FgImGa1xkYpHOY0U0y5k_E3hKN9HPIhIhpt0VlBGszOUAO8zVq8-2FAHEKD1CmoHSOUYiblkV-2BUihFIHVh-2FdfbdUZSgvr8qi4OqdB5L0wvk1L4hqqdczIRn6vQcOS4lkNy4sc8gF8eoiGYiV5-2BfXzbmXaSJobtn809kpwrVSudC6gUau3J-2B-2FlgnGohWJeeANN-2ByQxoYxQGOWl3ZLTuQSvw9LXdyNF64TkNa3fPK2S1E8oCr3iMBSCRofDPV4XoV0cQc4t-2B3kdsx4VN1itrRgWpn

is there a command to check my current configuration?  
--- `git config --list`  
--- `git config --global --list` (for global settings)

any particular privacy pro-tips, both for privacy generally as well as to minimize harassment? <sigh, can be reality>?
--- I found this post helpful https://github.community/t/your-privacy-on-github/10206
--- Private respositories are really the only way to prevent interaction on a repository.

Does the email you set have to be the email associated with the git account?
--- yes if you want to post the files to GitHub

when we use 'git add' what is this called? that is, why do we have an 'add' step before a 'commit' step?
--- It means you’re adding the list of changes that you want to add to that particular commit (Ie version update)  
--- the technical term for this is "adding a modification to the local index". You can use multiple "git add" commands before a "git commit" to be specific about which changes are a part of a commit.  
--- Its important to use `git add` since there will be times you have files you don’t want to track but just keep locally. Like I often have large files >100MB that will cause problems if you commit.

what is the difference between git add . and git add *
--- "git add ." tells git to add all files recursively in a directory regardless of what they are.
--- The asterisk is helpful if you want to do a specific file type, for example: "git add *txt"

can I use `git diff HEAD` without the file name and get all changes since last commit?
--- yes!

Can we track these changes in doc documents or powerpoint ppt files using bash git?
--- You can still track changes, but the printout of the changes just won’t be as clear
--- you can track changes of PPTs or PDFs, but because those files are not text files directly (they're "binary" files), as Katie says the diff will usually not show anything useful.

Then to tack changes, I have to use txt files only?
--- to track changes using the system Kim is showcasing, yes. You will need to use files that are text based (they do not have to be .txt files exclusively)
--- If you want to be able to see the changes in your terminal, yes. But the changes will still be tracked even if they don’t look meaningful when printed out

If we had added the file first, but not committed it, could we still use checkout?
--- Yes. Until a change is committed, it is not saved in git. So if you have an untracked change (before add) or a tracked but not committed one (after add), checkout overwrites the local version and you lose info from current file and staging area.

Is being in the planets directory just good housekeeping, or would gitignore have not worked in the subdirectory?
--- Fyou can add a gitignore at any level I believe. It's usually done at the top level because that's the easiest/most convenient place to find it :)
--- it also looks like gitignores in subdirectories will override the gitignore that's at the top directory for the subdirectory it's in. Read more with "git help gitignore"!

12:56:39	 can you ignore directories?
--- yes! with something like `directory.name/*`

Is that . before gitignore required?
--- yes

Any particular resources folks recommend for some best practices? (lapsed user here, want to instill good habits/ avoid alts)
--- Recommendation resource for commits mesages  https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/
--- https://github.com/jimtyhurst/git-10-commands

how can we send this repository to our github account?
--- Stay tuned for next week!

