Notes: https://github.com/kdillmcfarland/2021-04-02-r-ladies-seattle-online/tree/gh-pages/_episodes/R-ladies

Git rm vs reset: https://stephencharlesweiss.com/git-rm-vs-git-reset

As a note this particular workshop would be taught as a paired exercise in person, but that’s pretty difficult to pull off over zoom. That’s why we are using 2 git bashes instead. Next best thing :)

Remember that your version may be called “master” instead of "main"

just a question about terminology - the remote server is GitHub, but is it also called the origin?
--- Origin refers to the remote *repository* that you cloned. Every repo has its own origin. Remote is GitHub.com where you (most likely) only have 1 account to hold all your repos

Importantly, push/pull to the same branch from two different computers (or terminals in our case) only works if both users have write permissions to the repo. If the collaborator didn’t, the push to GitHub would show up as a request to the owner. Then the owner would need to accept/reject the changes

As Madison said, you have full control to edit the file once git finds a conflict. Just be sure to remove the lines with <<< === >>> before add/commit again. Those are what tell git there is a conflict

When does one use fetch?
--- When you want to see how your local copy differs from GitHub's copy without actually changing any files in your local copy

For the conflict to happen, does the change has  to be in the same line in the document? e.g. if the changes happened in different lines, no conflict will happen?
--- Correct. If you added to line 1, and collaborated added to line 4. Git would automatically merge and keep both changes

may i ask what is the git UI?
--- GitKraken

How does GitHub decide how to name the branches? I'm just wondering why it calls it "change-mars"
--- You decide the name when you run git checkout -b BRANCH_NAME_HERE

I think I typed in some conflicts in the Mars file, and have conflicts. To resolve those, would it be better to go back to command line and fix? Or in GitHub?
--- Unless you are familiar with GitHub.com for conflict resolution, it's usually easier to do in command line (or a GUI if that's what you usually use).

And how do you propose where the added change will go when merging branches?
--- Changes occur where ever you have them in the file. If you add a new line 2, that's where it goes.

