notes: bit.ly/Rladies-git
Survey: https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/wi32rS?slug=2021-04-02-r-ladies-seattle-online

Note that you don’t *have* to name the GitHub repo the same as the directory on your computer. But it is often a good idea

Some versions may still call it “master” as in git push origin master

ERROR:
Warning: Permanently added 'github.com' (RSA) to the list of known hosts.
git@github.com: Permission denied (publickey).
fatal: Could not read from remote repository.

Please make sure you have the correct access rights
and the repository exists.
--- This is the doc I go to for permissions errors https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/error-permission-denied-publickey

How is git push different from git commit?
--- does push move between repositories? and commit updates a specific repository?
--- Git push will send files to remote repository. Git commit will not
--- Git push only moves what has been committed in the repo. As in, if you have an untracked file or one that was added but not committed, those changes are not uploaded to GitHub

12:36:32	 From C : possibly out of scope for this session, any rec / is it possible to later merge work stuff into personal/master acct? (wouldn't want to reference current workplc for safety/security issue.)
--- You could fork from one account to another so you have a copy on another account. But then you have to keep on top of updating it from the main branch. If they are public repos, then recruiters will see you work. But if they are private (a problem with organizations as well), then unfortunately no one else can see them
--- You can set your contributions graph on your GitHub profile to include both public and private commits

If you want tips on how to setup an organization (free for academic and nonprofit research), follow-up with me kadm@uw.edu

Would mind explaining the meaning of fork and branch please
--- https://www.nobledesktop.com/learn/git/git-branches
--- Branches are when you own the repo or have write permissions. Forks are when you don’t own the repo so you need to fork (copy) it to your account before you can edit it.
--- When writing R packages we use “feature branches” when developing new functions. Then you write your function, documentation, and tests in that branch. It’s like having a “workspace” within the repository

Question, I tend to fork repositories to save and go back and study later on.  Sort of like a bookmark.  A friend of mine laughs at me for this.  How do you use forking?
--- You can Watch or Star a repo to save it for later as well
--- Forking if most commonly used on open source code projects. Someone (not the owner of the repo) forks (copies) it and makes changes (like adding a function), then pull requests the original owner to merge their changes into the main/master branch

If there are other advanced git/GitHub topics you want to see, we’re planning a lightning talk session. Submit ideas here! https://github.com/rladies-seattle/rladies-seattle-organizing/issues/21

how do you pull/push a branch?
--- Add the branch to your local copy
git remote add origin URL.to.branch
Then specify the branch name instead of main/master in pit push/pull origin branch.name

I have accidentally wiped the files in a local repository by using a branch name that was very similar to a past branch name (I think), is this a common problem?
--- sometimes this can be mitigated by prefixing your branch with a date, or ticket of work, to try and avoid colliding with other branches! e.g. "2021-04-03-feature" or "feature/new-tool"
